Imran: wants to provide the best
possible signposting service

The day to day pressures
in pharmacy have really
increased a lot so 1•m
finding it very difficult to
provide a first-class
signposting service."

Role - Community Pharmacist

As a Community Pharmacist, Imran acts as
both a dispensing pharmacist but also as a
store manager. He is responsible for dealing
with all the diverse issues that arise in the
running of a busy retail store. When he is not
there, a locum pharmacist covers.

Direct patient care is becoming a significant
part of Imran's role. He offers a variety of
services including smoking cessation, weight
management, alcohol advice, flu vaccinations,
minor injuries dressings and blood pressure
monitoring.

Increasingly patients are coming to Imran's
Pharmacy for frontline primary care because
they cannot get a GP appointment. It is the
easiest place for them to access advice and
Imran is known and trusted in the community.

Imran frequently needs to direct patients on to
a vast range of both NHS and private services
such as sexual health, eye units and
emergency dentists, especially on Saturdays.

Imran relies on a mixture of methods including
local knowledge, checking the paper
signposting folder, searching websites or
contacting the local GP to find service
information.

Imran and his team are confident using digital
devices. He will spend as much time as
possible researching available options on a
desktop PC or his own smartphone, however
during busy times he feels pressured when
queues start to form.


Accessing Service Information

Key challenges

• No centralised or official
source of service information.
• Difficult to keep information in
sign posting folder up to date.
• Time pressures make it difficult
to provide the most considered
referrals.
• Never knows what problems
patients are going to present
with or what services may be
needed.
• Rarely gets any feedback so
cannot find out what happens
to patients or if referrals are
appropriate.

User needs

• Up to date, trustworthy
information, accessible quickly
from one place.
• Information on a wide range of
services including social care, local
authority, third sector and private.
• Feedback on appropriateness of
referrals and patient outcomes


What success means

"If I could easily search and find trustworthy information in
one place, I could confidently direct my patients to the right
service in a very efficient way. That way I could ensure they
get the right care in the best timeframe and help relieve the
burden on local GPs and A&E. Better communication with
other services would help make sure I'm making the right
referrals and not causing a headache for somebody else.
~~